After tutoring CS at the Polytechnic tutoring center and doing well on my CS projects, I interviewed for an internship at a financial research company. Previously I had other internships where they called me a programmer, but I always ended up doing minor development or legwork for employees. This position seemed like the perfect one for me to break out and really produce something. I passed my interview and was ecstatic. About a week later, a professor of mine introduced me to an entrepreneur who needed programmers for a web app. This was supposed to be the next big web company, and I was strongly advised that this was the time to take a risk (I was 20). 
I turned down the financial company and went to work for no pay and a promise of equity, high influence, and the learning experience of a lifetime. At the start I considered myself to be extremely talented, and didn’t think that not knowing any web mattered. Boy was I wrong. I was willing to learn, but the senior developer turned out to be way behind on web standards, and not too willing to participate in teaching the young guys. There was no structure for the project, other than an arbitrary moving deadline, no code reviews, and no direction other than “there’s a lot of work to do, so keep going.” We all helped develop the product, but we were talking about requirements during a perpetual phase of implementation. I would code away in my corner for hours, turn around to debate the validity of some feature for a few more hours, get coffee and start the cycle again. I was having fun, I was learning about product development, and I was getting better at coding, but every two weeks I was surprised that we missed launch yet again. How could that be? We were all putting in 80 hour weeks! A year passed, and we were on a sprint the entire time. I was exhausted and frustrated, and I left to focus on school. So last semester I took two great courses: Web Search Engines, and Machine Learning. 
I’ve been working on a master’s thesis on indexing for versioned document collections for a few months now, and plan to be done in December. The material is super interesting, and I love being a part of a research group where the members help each other. I’ve kept myself sane by splitting the work into chunks, and trying to focus my efforts on the most important one. Research is hard because some of it might lead nowhere, but you take those paths anyway in order to find out. At least there’s some feedback from my advisor or group members. I’ve learned that I work best when I’m responsible for a piece of work, and I get feedback on it. I’ve worked on pure motivation before, trying to get a product to reach millions of people, but that didn’t work. At Google, I know that I’ll have feedback, as well as opportunities to learn every day, to reach millions of people every day, and to get better every day. I’d love the chance to show you my talent, so that you can show me my potential. Thank you. 
-Yan Krasny
