I’m a software developer who has worked on a few professional projects during college, and I’m very excited to focus on my career full time. My first real learning experience in CS was in teaching at the Polytechnic tutoring center. I taught there for three years, and was the CS team leader for a year and a half. It was a great experience, and I still marvel at how much one can learn from teaching. The summer after sophomore year, I interned at a document management company, gaining exposure to the world of business, and taking on responsibility for client work. These experiences gave me confidence as well as knowledge, and I soon interviewed for an internship at a financial research company. The position paid well, and offered the opportunity to produce software that would affect many people. I passed my interview and was ecstatic. About a week later, a professor of mine introduced me to an entrepreneur who needed programmers for a web app. This was supposed to be the next big web company, and I was strongly advised that if I ever wanted to be in a startup, this was the time.
After weeks of debating with myself and those close to me, I respectfully turned down the financial company and went to work for the promise of equity, high influence, and the learning experience of a lifetime. I was confident and talented, and was willing to learn all the necessary technologies and techniques for a large scale application. I coded away at my station for hours, participated in feature development, and helped build the company structure. I was having fun, learning about product development, and getting better at coding. However, as I found out, bootstrapping a software company was no easy task. We missed launch deadlines several times, but not for lack of effort. I was surprised because we were all putting in 80 hour weeks. A year passed, and we kept trying, practically sprinting the entire time. Unfortunately I had to leave to focus on academics. It was another tough decision, but I couldn’t overturn my long term plan from several years before: I was doing my bachelor’s and master’s degrees together, amounting to four and a half years of schooling overall. Finishing my two degrees remained my first priority, so, hard as it was to leave, I shifted my focus. 
Since last semester, I’ve been working on a master’s thesis on indexing for versioned document collections. The thesis, along with the requirements for my degree, should be finished in December. The material is very interesting, and I love being a part of a research group where the advisor and group members help each other regularly. I’m glad to have their feedback, and I’ve learned to value the wisdom of others. At Google, I would benefit immeasurably from the feedback of experienced engineers. I’d have opportunities to learn, to reach millions of people, and to get better at my craft every day. I’d love the chance to show you my talent, so that you can show me my potential. Thank you. 
-Yan Krasny
