I’m a software developer who has worked on a few professional projects during college, and I’m very excited to focus on my career full time. After tutoring CS at the NYU Polytechnic tutoring center and doing well on my course projects, I interviewed for a paid internship at a financial research company. This wasn’t my first programming internship, but it offered the opportunity to produce software that would affect many people. I passed my interview and was ecstatic. About a week later, a professor of mine introduced me to an entrepreneur who needed programmers for a web app. It was supposed to be the next big web company, and I was strongly advised that this was the time to take a risk (I was 20).
After weeks of debating with myself and those close to me, I respectfully turned down the financial company and went to work for the promise of equity, high influence, and the learning experience of a lifetime. I was confident and talented, and was ready to learn all the necessary technologies and techniques for a large scale web application. I coded away at my station for hours, participated in feature development, and helped build the company structure. I was having fun, learning about product development, and getting better at coding. However, no matter how much coffee we drank, bootstrapping a software company was no easy task. A year passed, and unfortunately I had to leave to focus on academics. It was another tough decision, but I couldn’t overturn my long term plan from several years before: I was doing my bachelor’s and master’s degrees together, amounting to four and a half years of college overall. Finishing my two degrees remained my first priority, so, hard as it was to leave, I shifted my focus. 
Since last semester, I’ve been working on a master’s thesis on indexing for versioned document collections. The thesis, along with the requirements for my degree, should be finished in December. The material is very interesting, and I love being a part of a research group where the advisor and group members are so eager to help each other. Research is hard because some of it might lead nowhere, but I’ve learned to take those paths anyway in order to find out. I’m glad to have feedback from my group, and I’ve learned to value the wisdom of others. At Google, I would benefit immeasurably from the feedback of experienced engineers. I’d have opportunities to learn, to reach millions of people, and to get better at my craft every day. I’d love the chance to show you my talent, so that you can show me my potential. Thank you. 
-Yan Krasny
